Chapter 1
Robinson Crusoe by Daniel Defoe. Part one Robinson's adventures at sea. I was born in the year sixteen thirty two in the city of York in England.

My father was of a good family. He was a merchant von Bremen in Germany. He settled in England and made his fortune in trade, then he married.

My mother's family name was Robinson. I was baptized Robinson Kreutz now. However, in England we were always called Crusoe, so my friends call me Robinson Crusoe.

I had two brothers. One became a soldier. And was killed in a battle against the Spaniards. I do not know what happened to my other brother.

My father hoped I would study law, but I wanted to go to sea. Although my mother and father did not want me to go, my desire was so strong that I ignored their wishes. My father was a wise and serious man. He said that if I stayed at home, my life would be easy and pleasant.

Only desperate men or very fortunate men went abroad he said. I was neither desperate nor very fortunate. Mine was the middle state and he thought that the middle state was the best. The poor had a difficult life. And the rich were hated by the poor, said he.

In the middle state, a man could be happy kings often regretted that they were not born in the middle state. And wise men prayed to have neither poverty nor wealth he said that the greatest misfortunes in life were suffered by the rich and the poor.

Only the man in the middle state can live in peace. He said that moderation, quietness and good health were the conditions of the middle state.

He begged me not to abandon this happy condition. He told me that she had begged my brother not to become a soldier for the same reasons.

However, my brother had run away to the army and now he was dead. He said that god would not bless me if I went to see him and that I would be sorry I had ignored my father's advice. During the last part of his discourse, the tears ran down his face, especially when he spoke of my brother.

When he said that I would regret my choice, he was so moved that he could say no more. I was sincerely affected by his words and decided not to think of going abroad any more, but alas, in a few days I began to dream of the sea again. I spoke to my mother. I told her that I still desired to go to sea and that nothing else would make me happy. I said that I was eighteen years old, too old to begin another profession. I asked her to persuade my father to let me go to see. This made her very angry. She said that it would be useless to speak to my father.

If I wanted to ruin myself, she said, there was nothing she or my father could do to stop me. However, they would never agree to it.

A year later, I ran off to sea. This is how it happened. One day I went to the port of hull. A friend of mine was going by sea to London in his father's ship. He asked me to go with him. Since it would cost me nothing, I decided to go. Without even telling my mother and father.

Thus on the first of September sixteen fifty one I went on board a ship for the first time. As soon as the ship was at sea, the wind began to blow. I felt very sick and frightened. I thought that god was punishing me for leaving my father's house. The storm grew worse, although it was not as bad as many I have seen since. It was not even as bad as the storm I saw just a few days later, but it frightened me then. I thought the sea would swallow us. I swore to god that if I lived, I would return to my father's house and never go to sea again. The next day the sea grew calm and the sun shone. I no longer felt sick or frightened. My friend said.

Well, Bob, how do you feel? Were you afraid it was a terrible storm said I do you call that a storm said he, that was nothing. Let's drink some rum and forget about it. We drank the rum and I forgot my promise to god. A few days later there was a really terrible storm. The waves were as high as mountains. I was very frightened. I feel sorry that I had forgotten my promise to god.

The sailors began to cry out that the ship would founder. Fortunately, I did not know what the word founder meant. I saw the captain and some others praying to god. At last we were rescued by a boat from another ship. As we escaped, we saw our own ship go down. It was only then that I understood the word founder.

When we reached the shore, the people were very kind to us. They gave us money to return to hull or continue to London as we pleased.

If I had returned home, I would have been happy.

My father, like the father in christ's story of the prodigal son, would have welcomed me. But I was foolish and I did not go home. The captain, who was my father's friend, said to me, young man, you should never go to sea again why, sir said I, will you never go to sea again that is different said the captain, the sea is my profession, it is my duty to go to sea, but you made this voyage to see if you liked it. God has shown you that the sea is not for you. Perhaps that is why my ship founded. You are like Jonah of the Bible story. I am sorry I ever allowed you on my ship. I went to London by land, how unwise young people are. They are not afraid to sin, but they are afraid to seem foolish. I signed up for a voyage to Africa. I should have signed up as a sailor, I could have learnt the sailor's profession.

In time, I might even have become a captain. However, I always made the worst choice and I chose to go to sea as a gentleman. Therefore I had no duties on the ship, and I had no chance of learning to be a sailor. I met the captain of a ship that had been on the coast of Africa. He had made good profits from the voyage and was eager to go again. He asked me to go with him as his companion. He said that I need not pay for the voyage.

If I had any money, he said, he would show me how to make a profit in trade.

I accepted the offer and became friends with the captain, who was a good and honest man. Following the captain's advice, I spent about forty pounds on things of little value, these I could trade for gold on the coast of Africa.

The voyage was a great success for me. Indeed, it was my only successful voyage. My friend the captain taught me the skills of both a sailor and a merchant. I brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold, which I sold in London for nearly three hundred pounds.

Soon after our return to England, my friend died. I decided to do the same voyage again and signed up on the same ship with its new captain.

As we approached the coast of Africa, we were pursued by a Turkish ship.

After a short battle, the Turkish ship was victorious and we were all taken as prisoners to the port of sale.

The captain of the Turkish ship made me his slave. I was horrified by this surprising change from merchant to miserable slave.

I remembered my father's prophecy that I would be miserable, and I realized that it had indeed been fulfilled. After about two years of slavery, I saw my chance of escape.

One day, my master sent me out fishing with his brother Ismail and a black slave boy called Xury. The fishing boat was full of food, guns and fresh water.

While we were fishing, I pushed Ismail into the sea. He cried for help. I pointed a gun at him and said, I will not hurt you if you do as I say.

You swim well enough to reach the shore, go swim to shore and leave us alone.

If you do not, I will shoot you in the head, for I want my liberty Ismail swam away from the ship and I turned to the slave boy. Zurich said I if you will be faithful to me, I will make you a great man, if not, I will throw you into the sea too the boy smiled and promised to be faithful to me.

We sailed along the coast of Africa, close to the shore. Sometimes we heard lions and other wild beasts. We needed fresh water, but we were afraid to go ashore for fear of wild beasts and savages. Julie said that he would go ashore to get water and I should wait in the boat. Why should you go, Zuri I asked. Why should I not go and you wait in the boat jury replied in words that made me love him ever after, if wild men come, they will eat me and you will escape. Well I said, we will both go.

If wild men come, we will kill them, and they will eat neither of us we went to shore and got fresh water. As we were returning to the boat, we saw a lion on the beach.

I aimed my gun and shot Julie and I took the skin off the lion, but I thought it might be of some value.

We sailed along the coast for ten days.

I hoped that we would meet a European trading ship and be saved, but we did not meet one. Sometimes we saw people on the shore, their skin was black and they were naked.

Once I thought of going ashore to meet them, but Julie advised against it. I made signs to them that we needed food.

They brought meat and grain and left it on the beach for us. I made signs to thank them but had nothing to give them in payment. However, we soon had the chance to do him a great service.

Just as we reached our boat, a leopard came running down from the mountain towards the beach.

I shot it dead. The negroes were amazed and terrified by the sound of my gun.

When they saw that the leopard was dead, they approached him. They wished to eat the flesh of this animal. I made signs to tell them that they could have him and they began cutting him up. They cut off his skin and gave it to me. Leaving my friendly negroes, I sailed on for eleven days.

As we approached cape verd, Xy cried out, master a ship! I saw that it was a Portuguese ship, I sailed towards it and in three hours I reached it. The men on the ship asked who I was.

When I told them my story, they were very kind, they took me on board their ship with all my property from the boat.

I offered all my property to the captain to thank him for saving me, but he would not take it. He said they were sailing to Brazil. He said that my property would be returned to me when we arrived.

He offered to buy my boat from me. He paid me eighty pieces of eight for it. He also offered me sixty pieces of eight for my boy Xi. I did not want to sell the poor boy's liberty because he had helped me to escape from slavery.

Then the captain offered to set Jewry free in ten years if he became a Christian. Fury said he was willing to go with him so I let the captain have him.

About twenty two days later we landed in all saints bay in Brazil. I will never forget the captain's kindness.

He bought a lot of my property from the boat. I left the ship with about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight.

In Brazil I saw how well the sugar planters lived. They grew rich quickly. I decided to settle in Brazil and become a sugar planter.

The first two years were difficult, but then my plantation grew prosperous. I was sorry that I had sold my boygxi, for I needed help. I was not happy in my new life. This was the middle state of which my father has spoken. I often said to myself, I could have done this at home instead of coming five thousand miles to do it among strangers and savages. I thought I was like a man stranded alone upon an island.

Never compare your situation to a worse one, god may place you in the worst situation so that you long for your old life.

I say god was just to leave me on an island where I really was alone.

If I had been content to stay as I was, I would have been rich and happy.

By leaving me on an island, god made me understand this. The captain of the Portuguese ship advised me to send for some money.

I had left my money with a friend in London. My friend sent me the money in the form of English goods. When they arrived, I thought that my fortune was made. I sold the goods at a great profit for about four hundred pounds. As soon as I got this money I bought myself a Knigge slave.

After four years, I had learned the language and made some friends among my fellow planters. I told them of the trade in Knigge slaves on the African coast, IFA merchant takes knives, hatchets and other things of little value. I said he can easily trade them for gold and Knigge slaves.

They listened very attentively, especially to the part about buying slaves. There were very few slaves in Brazil at the time and they cost a lot of money.

Three planters came to me the next morning. They said they planned to buy a ship and sail to the African coast to buy slaves. They wanted to make one voyage only, then share the slaves among their plantations. They asked me if I would go on this voyage, and they promised that I would have a share of slaves without spending any money. I agreed to go.

I went aboard the ship on the first of September sixteen fifty nine, exactly eight years after my first voyage from hull. We sailed up the coast to cape saint agostino, then we lost sight of land.

Twelve days later, a hurricane hit our ship. For twelve days the winds blew strongly, every day I expected the sea to swallow us.

On the twelfth day the weather was a little calmer. The ship was filling with water, so I advised the captain to sail for barbados.

As we sailed, another storm hit us. The wind blew us far away from the trading routes.

If we came to land, we would probably be eaten by savages. One morning a sailor cried out land we ran out to look.

But at that moment the ship struck sand, the waves broke over the ship and we thought we would all die.

We could not move the ship off the sand. We were sure that the ship would soon break into pieces.

Therefore we climbed into a boat and left the ship. We rowed through that wild water towards the land, knowing that we were rowing towards our greatest danger.

Then a great wave came and the boat turned over. Though I was a good swimmer, I could not get my breath in this stormy sea.

A wave carried me along towards the shore. It left me on the sand, half drowned. I stood up and walked fast towards the beach. I knew another wave would soon brave over me. Sea rose behind me like a mountain. I held my breath and the wave carried me closer to the shore. I tried to stand up and get my breath again, but another wave broke over me. I was carried with great force and speed towards the shore.

Then my head shot above the water and I was able to breathe. For a moment I was covered with water again. Then that wave too began to withdraw. I felt the earth under my feet. I ran towards the shore, but twice more the waves came over me.

The last time nearly killed me. The sea threw me hard against a rock. I held on to the rock as the next wave broke over me.

When the wave withdrew, I ran to the beach, climbed over the rocks and lay down on the grass.

Chapter 2
Part two. Stranded on the island. I looked up and thanked god for saving my life. A short time before there has seemed to be no hope. It is impossible to describe the joy of someone who has just escaped death.

I alone had survived, all my companions were dead. When I saw how far away the ship was, I was amazed that I had been able to get to shore. I then began to look around me to see what kind of a place I was in.

My joy left me, I was wet, I had no other clothes and I had nothing to eat or drink. Surely I would die of starvation or be eaten by wild animals I had no gun with which to hunt for food or defend myself.

For a while I ran around trembling and crying. Night came. I walked around looking for fresh water. When I found some, I drank, then I climbed up a tree to sleep. When I awoke, the sun was shining. The waves had moved the ship closer to the shore. During the night I realized that if we had stayed on board, we would all have survived the storm. This thought made the tears run down my face. I took off my clothes and swam to the ship.

I climbed aboard and looked around. The ship's store of food was not wet. I needed a boat or a raft to carry the goods back to the shore. There were several large pieces of wood on the ship. I threw them into the sea, then jumped in myself and tied them all together with rope.

In this way, after a lot of time and effort, I made a raft. I then loaded the raft with food, clothes, tools, guns and bullets, all packed in wooden boxes. I got onto the raft and returned to the shore.

A short distance from where I had landed the night before, I saw a river. I landed the raft a little way up the river, and got all my goods on shore. I did not yet know whether I was on the mainland or an island. I took a gun and climbed a hill.

From the top of the hill I saw that I was on an island. I saw many birds, but no animals or people.

On my way back down the hill, I shot a bird. I believe it was the first gun fired there since the creation of the world.

At the sound, thousands of birds rose screaming into the air that evening. I set wooden boards and boxes around me to protect me as I slept. The next day I returned to the ship. This time I got a hammock, blankets, hatchets, a perspective glass and sails.

Back on shore I made a tent out of one of the sails. I brought everything into the tent that could be ruined by rain or sun. Then I made a bed and slept in it quietly all night, for I was very tired from the work of the day.

I had the largest store, I believe, that was ever laid up for one man. However, I was not satisfied. The ship had not yet broken to pieces and I thought I should get everything I could out of her.

Every day I went to the ship and brought back more goods. I brought bread, rum, sugar and many other things back to my tent. Finally, there was nothing more to take out of the ship. I then began to take pieces of the ship itself, iron, nails, rope, I carried away everything I could.

I have now been on the island for thirteen days, and had been eleven times on board the ship. I think that if the weather had remained calm I would have brought the whole ship away piece by piece.

The last time I went to the ship, I found money. I smiled and said, oh drug, what are you good for? One knife is worth more to me than all this money. I will leave you here. You are a creature whose life is not worth saving however, on second thoughts, I took it away.

Then clouds covered the sky and the wind began to blow. I went home to my tent where I lay with all my wealth around me, very secure. There was a bad storm that night.

In the morning the ship was gone. I now began to think about protecting myself from savages and wild animals. I wanted to build my house in a place that was near a fresh water supply. It should be sheltered from the sun, it should be safe from attack. Finally, it should face the sea. So that I could see any ship that came near the island. I still hoped to be rescued. I found a little flat shelf on the side of a hill.

There was a cliff behind it so that nothing could attack me from behind. In front, the hill descended to the beach. It was on the north side of the hill so that it was sheltered from the sun all day.

I built my tent against the cliff, then I built a high, strong wooden fence in a semicircle around the front of my tent. I made a ladder.

When I was inside, I could bring the ladder in after me. In this way, neither man nor beast could enter my house. It took a lot of time and effort to carry all my goods inside.

Then I began to dig out a cave in the cliff behind my tent because I needed a place to store my property.

After a big storm, I was afraid that lightning might strike my great box of gunpowder. Therefore I made many small boxes and put the gunpowder in them. These I hid in places secure from lightning. Every day I went out hunting there were goats on the island. I shot a she goat that had a little kid by her. This made me very sad.

When I carried the dead she goat to my house, the kid followed me, but it would not eat. I was therefore forced to kill it and eat it. I thought about my situation a lot. The storm had blown the ship hundreds of miles away from the European trading routes.

Therefore, I thought it was god's will that I should spend the rest of my life on this miserable island. I often ask myself why god chose to ruin his creatures. It seemed hardly rational to be thankful for such a life. Then one day when I was walking on the beach with my gun, I thought, certainly you are miserable, but what happened to the others? You alone were fortunate enough to survive.

Is it better to be on this island or at the bottom of the sea? Then I thought how well equipped I was to survive on the island.

What would have happened to me IFA ship had not been blown closer to shore? That happy chance allowed me to take all these things from the ship. How would I have lived without guns and bullets, tools and clothes? I was afraid that I would forget what day it was, I might even forget the sabbath. Therefore, I planted a great wooden cross on the beach.

And on it I carved these words with my knife I came on shore here on the thirtieth of September sixteen fifty nine.

Upon the sides of the post, I made a small cut with my knife every day. A longer cut every Sunday and an even longer cut for the first day of every month. I forgot to say before that among the things I took from the ship were some Catholic prayer books and three bibles.

There were also two cats and a dog on board the ship. I carried the cats back with me to the island. The dog jumped into the sea and swam after me. I tried to comfort myself by listing the comforts I enjoyed beside the miseries I suffered like this.

Evil I am stranded on an island with no hope of being saved. I have been singled out. I alone am chosen to lead this miserable life. I am separated from mankind without human society. I have not close to cover me, I have no means of defending myself against attack by man or beast, I have no soul to speak to.

Good, but I am alive, not drowned as well the other men on the ship, but I have also been singled out to survive. And he who saved me can deliver me from this condition, but I am not starving.

There is food on the island. But the weather is hot and I do not need clothes. But I see no wild beasts on this island. What if I had been ship wrecked on the coast of Africa, where I saw the lion and the leopard?

But god sent the ship near enough to the shore that I have been able to supply myself with many things.

This showed me clearly that even in the most miserable conditions, there are things for which to be thankful.

Chapter 3
Part three, lord of the island. One day I found among my goods a little bag that had once held grain on board our ship. I decided to use it to store my powder. So I shook it out near the rock outside my house. Soon afterwards, the rains came.

A month later I saw some young plants growing there. I had forgotten all about the grain bag. When the plants grew, I was surprised to see the some were our English barley and others were rice.

Up to this point, I had very little idea of religion. I thought of everything that had happened to me as chance.

When I saw English barley growing there, I thought it was a miracle. God had made it grow there to comfort me. This thought brought tears to my eyes.

Then I remembered shaking out the bag in that place just before the rains came. This calmed my mind. I thought the grain had grown there by chance, and so I felt less thankful to god. But I should have been thankful anyway because the chance of grain growing there was very small.

By chance, ten or twelve grains of barley and rice had remained in the bottom of the bag.

By chance I had shaken out the bag in the shade of the rock where it was projected from the sun. I carefully saved the grain to plant again. Hoping to grow enough to supply me with bread.

April the sixteenth I finished my letter. With this I could climb over the fence. The fence was now thick and high. From outside, the house could not be seen. At last I was safe from attack by man or beast.

The next day, the earth came falling down from the roof of my cave and the hill above it. I thought that my cave was falling in as it had done before. I climbed the fence for fear of being buried alive. Once outside, I realized that it was an earthquake. I was terrified that the hill would fall upon my tent and bury all my goods. I sat on the ground feeling miserable. The wind rose and there was a great storm. It lasted about three hours.

At that time, I sat on the ground terrified and miserable. But I never had one serious religious thought.

Two hours later, the air and sea were calm and it began to rain. I realized that the storm had been the result of the earthquake and that the earthquake was now over. I went in and sat in my tent.

June the sixteenth. On the beach at the other side of the island, I found a large turtle. I had never seen one before, but I soon discovered that there were many on the other side of the island.

June the nineteenth. I fell ill and began shivering. June the twentieth I did not sleep all night because of the fever. June the twenty first. I was terrified by my illness and had no one to help me. I prayed to god for the first time since the storm on the sea by how I could not think clearly.

For several days I lay shivering with fever. June the twenty sixth. I woke up feeling better. Having no food, I took my gun and killed a goat. I found it very difficult to carry the goat home because I was weak from my illness.

This to me I asked myself, but then I remembered my wicked life and I said to myself, why do you ask why god has done this to you. Ask instead why you were not killed long ago sadly disturbed by these thoughts, I went to my chest to look for some tobacco.

There I also found the bibles I had taken from the ship. I took one of the bibles and began to read.

The first words I saw were these. Call on me in the day of trouble. And I will deliver you. And you will praise me the words were very relevant to my situation, and I often thought about them afterwards.

Before going to bed, I knelt down and prayed to god. I asked him to fulfill the promise of the Bible and deliver me. I had taken rum and tobacco, so I fell asleep and did not wake up until about three in the afternoon of the next day.

When I awoke, I was refreshed and cheerful. July the third. I thought often about the words in the Bible will deliver you. But it seemed impossible that I should escape from the island. Then suddenly I said to myself, but I had been delivered from my illness, god had delivered me, but I had not praised him. Instead of thanking him for saving my life, I had thought only of escaping from the island. July the fourth. I began to read the Bible seriously. I decided to read a little every morning and every night now I understood the words call on me and I will deliver you.

In a different way. Before, I had asked to be delivered from my island prison. Now I asked to be delivered from the guilt of my sinful past. Deliver from sin is a far greater blessing than deliverance from misery.

My mind was now calm and comforted. I had been on this unhappy island for more than ten months. I believed that no human being had ever come here before. I was lord of the whole island. If I liked, I could call myself king or emperor. I had enough wood to build twenty ships, enough food for an army forgotten.

However, if I could not use it, it was of no value to me. I had enough to eat, so the rest was useless. I would have gladly given all my money for a little ink. Because it would have been useful, my life was now much easier than before. I thought much more about the blessings of my present life and much less about its misfortunes.

My ink had been gone for some time, my clothes were all worn out. I made new clothes for myself from the skins of the goats I killed. This was very slow and difficult work since I had no needle. The weather was so hot that I could have gone naked, however, I did not want to go naked even though there was no one to see me. I could not go naked because the sun was so strong they it would burn my skin. I therefore made myself clothes, a hat and even an umbrella. I tried to make a boat or canoe with which to escape from the island. For a clearer day, I could see the mainland. It took me a long time to build the canoe. When it was finished, it was too big for me to move. I could not get it to the shore and so I left it where I had built it. Later I made a smaller boat, but this was not large enough to take me to the mainland. I used it to sail around my island.

My life continued in this way for many years. It was an orderly life filled with work and the praise of god. I was not unhappy.

I was a king of of my island, my subjects were the goats. My subjects were the goats. The dog, the cats and some parrots I had tamed. There were no rebels among my subjects. One day around noon, something happened that changed my life on the island. I found the print of man's naked foot on the beach. I stood and look at the footprint in amazement. I looked around me but saw nothing. I went to higher ground and looked again but it was the same, I saw no one and no other footprint except that one, I was terrified and went home to hide myself.

At first I thought it must have been the footprint of the devil, for how could a human being have come to this place? I then began to think the print was left by savages from the mainland. They must have come in canoes and left again. I was very thankful that they had not seen my boat. How strange is the life of a man! Today we desire what tomorrow we fear. For years I had desired human society. Now I was terrified at the thought that another human being had set his foot upon the island.

I thought again of the words in the Bible, call upon me in the day of trouble and I will deliver you, and you will praise me I pray to god to deliver me from danger from danger.

Afterwards I opened my Bible and I read. Wait on the lord and be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart. Although these words comforted me, I was still afraid.

Fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself. I no longer trusted in god as I had before.

If I had kept my trust in god, I would have been more cheerful in this new distress.


Chapter 4: Footprints in the Sand
I had now been living on the island for fifteen years. During all that time, I had never seen another human being. However, savages from the mainland had clearly come to the island and they might come again. I decided to build a second fence around my house and plant trees outside it so that no one could enter.
In six years, I had a thick wood around my house.
About two years after I saw the footprint, I thought I saw a boat in the distance of the western part of the island. Perhaps the savages from the mainland often came to that side of the island, perhaps god had guided me to the eastern side, where the savages never came.
When I came down the hill to the shore. I was amazed and horrified to see human skulls, hands and feet lying on the sand. There was a pit in the earth where a fire had been made.
There the savages had made their inhuman feast, eating the bodies of their fellow men. I turned away from this terrible sight, I felt sick and vomited.
Then I ran back to my house. My eyes were full of tears. I thanked god that I had been born a civilized man, quite different from these savages. I thanked him for the comforts he had sent me in my distress. I thought I was probably safe from the savages. I had been on the island for eighteen years and I had never met them. I could live there safely eighteen more years if I did not choose to show myself to them.
For two years after this, I stayed close to my house. Then I began to go about the island as before, but more cautiously. I did not fire my gun for fear that the savages should hear the shot.
Fortunately, I had my tame goats and could kill them for meat without using my gun. I began to think night and day of killing some of these savages. Perhaps I could rescue their victim. I was horrified by their inhuman feasting. I was full of anger towards them. Sometimes I thought of burying five or six pounds of gunpowder under the place where they made their fire. When they lit the fire, the gunpowder would explode and kill them. But I did not want to use so much gunpowder since I had very little left. Then I thought of waiting for them hidden from sight, with my guns loaded. In the middle of their bloody feast I would shoot at them and I would be sure to kill many. Then I would run at them with my pistols and sword. Even if there were twenty of them, I was sure I could kill them all.
This idea pleased me very much. I thought about it so much that I began to dream about it.
Every day for two or three months I walked to the western side of the island and looked out to sea. All this time I was willing and eager to do an outrageous act. I was ready to kill twenty or thirty naked savages. I had not given any thought to this sin. I never asked myself if it were right or wrong. I was fired by my hatred of their unnatural customs. When I tired of watching out for them every day, I began to question my plan. God had let them live unpunished for ages, and what had these people ever done to me? They did not think it was a sin to kill a prisoner and eat his flesh. Then I thought that though this custom was inhuman, it was really nothing to me. These people had done me no harm.
If they attacked me, then I might have the right to kill them. At present I was at no risk. And therefore I had no right to kill them. If I did so. I would be no better than the spaniards who had destroyed millions of savages in America.
The savages had done the spaniards no harm. All the Christian nations of Europe said that the spaniards had been cruel and unnatural to kill those people. These thoughts made me abandon my bloody plan. Besides, I thought that attacking them would put me at greater risk.
If I did not kill all of them, the survivors would go home and return with others to kill me.
Therefore, I decided it was neither just nor wise to attack the savages. I gave thanks to god that I had been saved from committing a great sin.
But a year afterwards I never went to the western shore except once to get my boat and hide it on the eastern side of the island.
I had now been living on the island for twenty three years, and I had found some pleasant ways to pass the time.
I taught my parrot to speak. I taught him to say poor Robinson crusoe, he lived with me for twenty six years. Perhaps he is still living on the island? Go out, poor Robinson crusoe. I might have lived this way until I died contented in old age, but god had other plans for me.
How often in our lives the thing we fear most becomes the means of our deliverance. I could give many examples of this in my strange life.
However, the best example is that of my last years on the island. It was December of my twenty third year.
I went out early one morning when it was still dark. Suddenly I saw a fire on the shore about two miles away. I went back to my house and pulled the ladder up after me. I loaded all my guns and prayed to god to protect me.
After about two hours, I wanted to know what was happening outside. I climbed the hill behind my house, lay down in the grass and looked towards the shore with my perspective glass.
There I saw nine naked savages sitting around a small fire. They had two canoes with them. Some hours later they got into their canoes and left the island. As soon as they were gone, I took my guns and went to the western shore. I saw that there had been three more canoes at that place.
Looking out to sea, I saw them all rowing back to the mainland. Going down to the shore, I saw the remains of their unnatural feast.
The blood, the bones, the parts of human bodies. I was so filled with anger at this sight that I began again to think about destroying the next savages who came there. It was more than fifteen months before they returned to the island.
During all this time, I was in a murderous state of mind. I did not think that if I killed these savages. I would have to also kill the next ones who came, and the next and the next. In the end, I would be as much a murderer as they were. And perhaps much more so.
On the sixteenth of may, in my twenty fourth year on the island, there was a terrible storm. I was reading the Bible and thinking about my conditions.
Suddenly I heard the sound of a gun out at sea. I left my house and ran up to the top of the hill.
There I saw a flash of fire on the sea and heard the sound of the gun again. It must be a ship in distress, I thought, firing her guns to call for help. I could not help them, but I thought that they might help me.
Therefore, I built a fire on the hilltop. I was sure that the people on the ship had seen my fire because as soon as I did it, they fired the gun again. The next morning I saw that the ship was wrecked.
Perhaps the people on board were all dead, or perhaps they had escaped in a boat and been blown away from the island towards the open sea.
If so, they would die of starvation. Even now, they might be thinking of eating one another. I was thankful that god had chosen to save me alone out of all those who had been drowned in this sea. But I was also sad so that I cried out, oh, if one person had been saved out of that ship. And had escaped to this island. I would have had a companion, someone to talk to.
In all my time on the island, I never had so strong a desire for human society. I was in great distress. Oh, if just one had been saved! I cried over and over again, but it was not to be. A few days later I saw the body of a drowned boy come on shore, which made me very sad. I took my boat and went out to the wreck.
There I found no living soul, but I brought back more goods, about eleven hundred pieces of eight and some gold. I stored these goods in a cave on the island.
For the next two years I lived quietly and cautiously on the island. Yet all that time I was imagining ways to escape. Thus, once again, I was an example of the common weakness of mankind. We are never satisfied with what god has given us. And this makes us miserable.
One night I dreamt I was going out in the morning from my house. On the shore I saw two canoes and eleven savages coming to land. They had with them another savage, and they were going to kill and eat him.
Suddenly their prisoner began to run. As fast as he could, he ran to the thick woods in front of my house to hide himself.
Seeing that he was alone, I showed myself to him. He knelt down before me and begged me to help him. I showed him the ladder and took him into my house. He became my servant.
Then I thought I could go to the mainland with this man to guide me. I awoke full of joy, but when I found it was only a dream, I felt very sad. This dream gave me the idea that my only hope of escape was to get a savage.
If possible, I would rescue one of those they brought over to eat. This could only be done by killing all the other savages, and my heart trembled at the thought.
However, my desire to escape was so strong that finally I decided to watch out for the savages again.
For about a year and a half, I watched. No one came to the island in all that time. Then one morning I saw five canoes on the shore.
I climbed the hill, hid myself in the grass and watched them with my perspective glass.
There were about thirty of them. They had built a fire and were dancing around it. As I watched, they brought two prisoners from the boats to be killed. One of the prisoners fell down and the savages began cutting him up for their feast. At that moment the other prisoner began to run. He ran with amazing speed along the shore towards my house. I was terribly frightened when I saw him running towards me. I thought that all the others would follow him.
My dream seemed to be coming true when I saw that only three men were pursuing him, I felt less frightened.
The prisoner came to the river, jumped in, and swam across. When his pursuers came to the river, one of them stopped and turned back, for clearly he could not swim. The others swam across the river, but not so quickly as the prisoner had done. I thought that god was calling me to save this poor creature's life. I thought that by saving his life I would get a servant and perhaps a companion. I took my guns and ran down to the shore. I cried out to the prisoner.
At first he was frightened of me. Slowly I walked towards the two who followed. I hit the first one with my gun. Having knocked this fellow down, I walked towards the other. I saw that he had a spear. He was ready to throw it at me, therefore I had no choice but to shoot him. Though he saw that both his enemies had fallen, the poor savage was frightened by the sound of my gun. I called to him and made encouraging signs. The poor creature was trembling. He walked towards me slowly.
When he came close to me, he knelt on the ground and kissed the earth. He then put his head upon the ground, he took my foot and placed it upon his head.
I helped him to his feet and encouraged him. The savage I had knocked down now began to move. I pointed to him to show my savage that his enemy was not dead.
My savage spoke some words to me. I did not understand them, but I enjoyed listening to them.
They were the first words spoken to me by any human being for over twenty five years. I pointed my gun at the savage on the ground. My savage touched the sword at my side as if asking to use it.
I gave it to him. And he ran to his enemy and cut off his head with one blow.
When he had done this, he came back to me laughing and gave me my sword. Then he buried the bodies in the sand.
Afterwards, I took my savage to my cave and gave him food and water. I made signs to him that he should sleep and pointed to the blanket where I often slept myself.
He was a strong, handsome fellow, about twenty six years old. He had a pleasant face, with all the sweetness and softness of a European, especially when he smiled. When he awoke, he made many signs of thankfulness to me for saving his life.
I showed him that I was pleased with him. Then I began to speak to him and teach him how to speak to me. First I told him that his name would be Friday, which was the name of the day on which I saved his life. I taught him to call me master. I stayed with him in the cave all that night. The next morning we went out.
We came to the place where we had buried the two men. Friday made signs to me that we should dig them up and eat them. I made signs of vomiting. And let him know how much I hated the idea. I then led him to the top of the hill to see if his enemies were still on the island. Savages and their canoes were gone. We went down to the place where they had been. I was horrified at the sight, but Friday did not seem disturbed by it.
The place was covered with human bones and blood. I saw three skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet. I made Friday put the skulls and bones into a pile and burn them. I could see that he still wished to eat some of the flesh.
When we had done this, we went back to our house, I made clothes for Friday. Then I built a tent for him between the first fence and the second. Thus, Friday could not attack me during the night. But there was no need. Friday was the most faithful, loving and sincere servant.
He loved me as a child, loves his father. He would have given his life to save mine. God did not give all his creatures the knowledge of how best to use their capacities. However, he gave all mankind the same reason, sentiments and passions.
It made me sad to think that god had hidden the saving knowledge from so many millions of souls. Someone like Friday would use that knowledge better than many white men.


Chapter 5: Friday's Story
Friday learned to speak quickly. He was very pleased when he understood me or could make me understand him. It was good to talk to him now. My life was easy. I took Friday out with me to shoot a goat. When I fired my gun, Friday trembled and tore open his jacket to see if he was wounded. He knelt on the ground and said many things I did not understand. I think he was begging me not to kill him. I took him by hand and laughed at him, then pointed it to the goat I had shot. He was amazed. I believe that if I had let him, he would have worshipped me and my gun for days afterwards. He would not touch the gun, but he often spoke to it, begging it not to kill him that night, I roasted some meat and gave it to Friday. He enjoyed it so much that he told me he would never again eat man's flesh. I was very glad to hear that. The next day I taught Friday how to make bread.
After a little time he was able to do these things as well as I could do them myself.
This was the best year of my life on the island. Now I had someone to talk to, and he was a pleasant fellow. He was honest and simple. I began really to love him, and I believed he loved me more than he had ever loved anything before. One day I talked to Friday about his nation. I asked him what his nation did with the prisoners they took in battle. Do they carry them away and eat them as these did I asked. Yes said Friday. My nation is the man too. Do they ever carry prisoners to this island yes, sometimes have you been here with them Friday yes, I have been here he pointed to the western side.
Of the island. So Friday had been one of the cannibals who used to come to the other side of the island. He told me that one time he had eaten twenty men, two women and a child. Friday told me many things about people of his nation and nations nearby. Then he told me that at a great distance from his nation there lived a white man like me, and that they had killed many people.
I understood that these were spaniards whose cruelty was well known. I asked him if he thought I could go from this island to the place where the other white man lived. He said I could, but I would need a large boat. I began to hope that I could escape from the island with Friday's help.
I taught Friday all I could about religion. One time I asked him who made him. He did not understand me at all. He thought I had asked who his father was. Then I asked him who made the sea, the earth, the hills and the woods. He told me be a monkey, made them be AMA was very old, much older than the sea or land. Friday said, if this old person has made all things said I, why do all things not worship him Friday looked very serious and said all things say o to him. I asked what happened to the people who died in this country. He said he went to bema. Then I asked whether those they ate went to bed too. He said yes. I then began to teach him about the true god. I told him that a great traitor of all things lived off here pointing towards heaven.
I said he was anipotent. He could give everything to us and take everything away from us. Friday listened very attentively. He liked the idea that Jesus christ was sent to save us and that god could hear our prayers.
He said if god could hear us in heaven, he must be a greater god than benemaki.
Benemaki only heard when people went to the mountains to speak to him. Friday said he told me that only the old men were allowed to go to speak to benemaki. Well, I thought, there are cunning priests even among the savages. I told Friday that the old men were not telling the truth when they said that they had spoken to Ben. I said perhaps they had spoken to the devil. I then had to explain to Friday who the devil was. Some days later I spoke to Friday about god again. Friday said if god is so strong, why does he not destroy the devil? I was surprised at this question. I was a very old man, but I was a very young teacher of religion. I asked him to repeat what he had said, this gave me the time to think of an answer. God will punish the devil in the end said I, that did not satisfy Friday. But why does god not kill him now? Why did god not kill him long ago? I said, why does god not kill you and I when we are wicked?
He gives us time to repent and be forgiven Friday thought about this, then he said, well, well, I understand you, I and the devil are all wicked, but god lets us all live so that we can repent and be forgiven.
Here I was in difficulty again and I thought how true it was that reason alone cannot lead us to salvation. I told Friday that I needed something and sent him to get it. This give me time alone to pray to god that he would help me to teach Friday. As a teacher, I had a more sincerity than knowledge in trying to teach him. I taught myself many things that I did not know before and many I did not really understand. I wanted to understand more than ever before. I do not know whether I helped Friday, but I'm sure that Friday helped me. I was more contented than before and I enjoyed my home very much. I thanked god for allowing me to save the life and perhaps the soul of this poor.
Savage when I thought about these things, I felt a secret joy, and I thanked god for bringing me to this island. Friday, and I lived happily together on the island for three years. The savage was now a good Christian, better indeed than I was myself. One day I showed him the wreck of the boat in which my companions and I had left our ship Friday, looked at it a long time, then said.
Was a boat like that came to my nation. Were they any white men in the boat I asked. Yes said Friday, there were seventeen, and what happened to them they live in my nation he said, perhaps these white men were from the ship that I had seen wrecked near my island, I thought but Friday said I, why do the people of your nation not kill and eat the white man we only eat the flesh of our prisoners we catch in battle said he.
Sometimes after this, when we were on the hilltop looking out to sea, you saw the coast of America. Oh joy cried Friday. There is my country! There is my nation his eyes shone and his face was eager. I began to worry if Friday could return to his own nation. I thought he would forget about me and his new religion. Perhaps he would even tell his people about me and return with hundreds of them to eat me. I worried about this for several weeks, the one day I asked him Friday, would you like to return to your own nation oh yes said Friday, that would make me very happy. What would you do there, I asked. Would you eat man's food? Flesh and become a savage again Friday shook his head and said, no, I would teach them how to live well and how to pray to god. I would teach them to eat bread and the flesh of goats, and never to eat men.
But then I said, they would kill you. N o, t h e y would not kill me. They will be willing to learn. I told him that I would make a canoe for him to go back to his nation. Then Friday said that he would go if I would go with him. I go said I, but they would eat me.
N o, n o, he said, I would tell them not to eat you. I would make them love you very much. I told him again that I would make him a canoe so that he could return to his nation. Friday looked very sad. Why are you angry with me he asked. I said I was not angry with him at all then why do you want to send me away but Friday said I did you not say that you want to go home yes, yes said Friday. I wish we were both there. I do not wish to return alone, but what would I do there Friday I asked. You could do a lot of good there. You could teach my people to be good. You could tell them about god no, no Friday I said, you go without me, and leave me here to live alone as I did before he looked very distressed at my words and taking up.
A hatchet. He gave it to me and said, kill me why must I kill you I asked in amazement. Why do you want to send me away? Do not send me away, it is better to kill me he spoke very sincerely and his eyes were full of tears. I saw clearly that he loved me and would never leave me. I told him that I would never send him away from me if he was willing to stay. We started building a boat large enough for the two of us and all our goods. The rainy season came before we finished the boat.
Therefore, we brought it into the river to keep it safe until the weather was calm.


Chapter 6: Coming Back Home
I had now been on the island for twenty seven years. One day I sent Friday to get a turtle. He came running back from the shore crying, oh, master, master, there are three canes the poor fellow was terribly frightened.
Will you help me to fight them Friday said I, oh, yes said he, and will you do everything I tell you to do yes, yes, I will, said he, then I will defend you Friday said I, giving him a loaded gun and a hatchet.
He said, master, I will die when you tell me to die I took the pistols and my sword, we went up the hill to see what was happening.
There were twenty one savages, three prisoners and three canoes. They had landed closer to my house than ever before. This filled me with anger. But then I thought, what right have I to kill men who have done me no harm? It is a national sin and god alone can punish the nations. Friday could attack them because they were the enemies of his nation. They had tried to kill and eat him, but since they had done me no harm, I had no right to kill them. Therefore, I decided not to attack them. Instead, I would hide myself and watch the cannibal feast. I would wait for a sign from god before I acted. I sent Friday closer to look at.
The savages. He came back and told me they were around the fire eating the flesh of one of their prisoners. Another prisoner was lying upon the sand with his hands and feet bound. Friday said they would kill him next. This made me very angry. Then Friday told me that this other prisoner was not of his nation. He was one of the white men who had come to Friday's nation in a boat. I was horrified at the thought of this white man waiting to be cold and eaten. I went closer and looked through my perspective glass. I saw a white man tied up on the beach. He wore clothes and was clearly an European. I moved closer to the beach keeping myself hidden.
Behind the bushes two savages were approaching the poor Christian. They were going to kill him and bring him piece by piece to the fire. I told Friday to do as I did. I took one of my guns and aimed at the savages. Friday did the same. We both fired our guns at the same moment. Friday was a better shot than I, he killed two of them and wounded three more. All those who were not injured jumped up and looked around in fear and amazement. I threw down that gun and took up another. Friday did the same. Are you ready Friday said I, yes! Then fire in the name of god again! We both fired our guns at the same moment.
Only two were killed, but many were wounded and ran about screaming and covered in blood. Come Friday said I, follow me I ran out of the bushes and I showed myself to the savages. Friday followed me. Without a question I ran towards the poor victim. Some of the savages ran away and jumped into a canoe. I told Friday to shoot them. He killed two of them and wounded another. I pulled out my knife and cut the ropes that bound the poor victim. I asked him in Portuguese what he was. He said as paganin I gave him a gun and a sword. The savages that remained had been very frightened by the sound of my gun. The poor creatures lay on the ground.
Unable to move, the spaniard took the sword and the gun. Very thankfully, this seemed to give him new strength. He attacked his murderers and cut two of them to pieces. I told Friday to get other guns. Then I sat down and began to load them. Friday and the spaniard fought the savages. They came to me when they wanted a loaded gun. Friday pursued the savages who were running away. He killed the four of them with his hatchet. At the end of the battle most of the savages were dead. Three killed at our first shot from the tree, two killed at the next shot. Two killed by Friday in the boat to killed by Friday. Of those at first wounded, one killed by Friday in the wood, three killed by the spaniard, four killed by Friday while they were running away, four escaped in the boat with which one was wounded or dead. Twenty one in all.
All I ran towards a canoe, because I wanted to pursue the savages who had escaped to sea. However, when I got to the canoe I found another poor creature tied up in it. I cut the ropes that bound him and give him rum to drink. Then I told Friday to explain to him that he was saved. But when Friday saw him, he kissed him. He cried, then he laughed, then he danced. I looked at him in amazement. Friday! What does this mean said I, oh master said Friday, with the tears in his eyes, that prisoner is my father I was sincerely moved to see how much Friday loved his father he got into the boat and took his father in his arms.
There he stayed for half an hour, holding his father close. Friday took good care of his father and the spaniard. He ran back to the house to bring them bread and fresh water. They were both very weak and their feet hurt from being tied, so they could not walk. Friday put the spaniard into the canoe beside his father. He pushed the canoe around the shore to our river.
We carried them from the river to the house, but there we met a great difficulty. How could we get them over the fence? It was impossible. So Friday and I set to work in about two hours. We built a handsome tent for them, covered with sails, just outside the second fence. My island was now peopled. I was the king, and all my subjects owed their lives to me because I had saved them all from certain death. Although I had only three subjects, they were all of different religions. My man Friday was a protestant, his father was a pen gun and a cannibal, and the spaniard was a Catholic. However, I allowed the freedom of religion.
What was an English ship doing here, far from the English trading routes? I decided to be cautious. Now I am sure that these doubts were messages sent from god. If I had not been cautious, I would have been. I saw the boat land on the beach. There were eleven men. Three of them were bound with the ropes. The three prisoners were crying out to the others, begging for mercy. Friday, who was by my side, said to me, oh master, you see, englishman is prisoners too.
No, Friday said I, they might murder them, but they will not eat them at about two o'clock in the afternoon the prisoners were left alone under a tree. The other man had gone into the woods to sleep Friday, and I took our guns and went down to show ourselves to the prisoners. When I was a very near to them, but still hidden by the bushes, I cried out, who are you, gentlemen they were frightened by my voice, but they were even more frightened when I stepped out into the open. I was wearing my goatskin jacket and my hat. A naked sword hung by my side. I carried two guns and two pistols. I thought they were going to run away from me, so I said.
Do not be afraid. I'm your friend. How can I help you one of them replied, you must be sent from heaven. All help is from heaven Sir I said, now tell me what has happened the poor man, with the tears running down his face, said, I was the captain of that ship, but my men have rebelled against me. They wanted to kill me, but I persuaded them to leave me on this island with my two friends here do your enemies have guns I asked. He said they had only one gun with them and another in the boat.
Well said I, it will be easy to kill them because they are all asleep, but should we take them prisoner instead? He said that two of them were so. Evil that they must be killed and then the others would properly obey. If I save you, sir said I, you must promise to accept me as your leader and be faithful to me he promised, and the other two did the same. Then I gave them each a loaded gun. They went into the woods towards the sleeping man. One awoke and cried out to the others. The captain's two companions fired their guns. They killed the two rebel leaders and took two prisoners. The others then begged for a mercy.
With this re in the men, the captain went in the boat to the ship. Since the rebel leaders were now dead, the man on the ship decided to obey him once more. He then returned to the island and said to me, my.
Good friend, there is your ship these words affected me greatly. I sat down upon the ground with the tears in my eyes. I did not forget to give thanks to god for delivering me. We asked the two rebel prisoners if they wished to be left on the island or to return to England where they would be punished. They said they wished to stay on the island. Therefore I showed them my house, my goats, my grain plantation, my goods. I gave them guns and powder, and I wished them a good fortune. And thus I left the island on the nineteenth of December sixteen eighty six, having lived there for twenty eight years, two months and nineteen days. I was delivered on the! Same day of the same month that I escaped from slavery in sale.
I took with me my goatskin hat, my umbrella and apparelt, I also took the money that had been so useless to me.
After a long voyage I arrived in England in the thth of June, having been away for thirty five years. We had many adventures afterwards. My man Friday and I I married and had three children, but then my wife died. A friend came home from a successful voyage. He persuaded me to go in his ship to the east Indies. Our adventures on this later voyage may perhaps be the subject of another story.